HTTP and RestEasy-related content review (#36661)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-cors.adoc

:keywords: cors,http
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-http

> Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is an HTTP header system that enables a server to specify which external origins, comprising different domains, schemes, or ports, are allowed by a web browser to access its resources.

Reviewer: I think the original wording here was just fine, why change it?
- "Mechanism" is surely a better word than system
- the "should" word is important, it's just a recommendation for the web browser - the browser doesn't technically HAVE TO conform to it
- the word "comprising" is also a bit weird here - one origin consists of a single domain, single scheme and a single port

[[cors-filter]]
== CORS filter

Quarkus provides a CORS filter, which implements the `jakarta.servlet.Filter` interface and intercepts all incoming HTTP requests.
It can be enabled in the Quarkus configuration file, `src/main/resources/application.properties`:

[source, properties]
----
quarkus.http.cors=true
----

> When the filter is activated and identifies an HTTP request as cross-origin, it will enforce the CORS policy.

Reviewer: Either "enabled" or "active". "Activated" sounds like it can be activated/deactivated dynamically, but this is something that happens just once for the whole application lifecycle.

> It will also apply headers configured with the specified properties before forwarding the request to its intended destination, like a servlet, Jakarta REST resource, or other endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will also add headers configured with the following properties before forwarding the request to its intended destination, like a servlet, Jakarta REST resource, or other endpoints.
```

Author: Great one. Applying

:keywords: cors,http
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-http

> Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is an HTTP-header-based mechanism that allows a server to indicate any origins other than its own, from which a browser should permit loading resources.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, missed `These origins consist of a single domain, scheme, and port.` is now a more focused, dedicated sentence.

These origins consist of a single domain, scheme, and port.

> For the complete origin definition, see the link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6454[Web Origin Concept] page.

Reviewer 2: Good idea :-), but do we know for sure that RFC does not talk about some origins which makes sense in context of CORS ? I don't mind keeping this reference, but I'd only keep in the Rerefences for the curious users to follow if they'd like

Reviewer 2: The RFC though is quite technical, but lets keep, I'd only suggest to keep the link in References but I'll let you decide :+1:

quarkus.http.cors.access-control-allow-credentials=true
----

> `/https://([a-z0-9\\-_]+)\\\\.app\\\\.mydomain\\\\.com/` is treated as a regular expression because forward slash characters surround it.

Reviewer: I liked the passive voice better here... Might be just me though.
